NAT is usually a device (router or firewall) that converts the private IP of a lan to a public ip and allows to redirect every request to the specific private ip that has requested it

full:

(NAT), which takes private IP addresses and turns them into public IP addresses. That way a corporate machine with a private IP address can send and receive packets from machines located outside the private network that have public IP addresses.

Without NAT, large corporations with thousands or tens of thousands of computers would devour enormous quantities of public IPv4 addresses if they wanted to communicate with the outside world. But those IPv4 addresses are limited and nearing exhaustion to the point of having to be rationed.

NAT helps alleviate the problem. With NAT, thousands of privately addressed computers can be presented to the public internet by a NAT machine such as a firewall or router.

The way NAT works is when a corporate computer with a private IP address sends a packet to a public IP address outside the corporate network, it first goes to the NAT device. The NAT notes the packet’s source and destination addresses in a translation table.

The NAT changes the source address of the packet to the public-facing address of the NAT device and sends it along to the external destination. 





There is no NAT for IPv6 (as you think of NAT anyway). NAT was an $EXPLETIVE temporary solution to IPv4 running out of addresses (a problem which didn't actually exist, and was solved before NAT was ever necessary, but history is 20/20). It adds nothing but complexity and would do little except cause headaches in IPv6 (we have so many IPv6 Address we unabashedly waste them). NAT66 does exist, and is meant to reduce the number of IPv6 addresses used by each host (it's normal for IPv6 hosts to have multiple addresses, IPv6 is somewhat different than IPv4 in many ways, this is one).

The Internet was supposed to be end-to-end routable, that is part of the reason IPv4 in invented and why it gained acceptance. That is not to say that all address on the Internet were supposed to be reachable. NAT breaks both. Firewalls add layers of security by breaking reachability, but normally that it's at the expense of routability.

You will want IPv6 in your networks as there is no way to specify an IPv6 endpoint with a IPv4 address. The other way around does work, which enables IPv6-only networks using DNS64 and NAT64 to access the IPv4 Internet still. It's actually possible today to ditch IPv4 all together, though it's a bit of hassle setting it up. It would be possible to proxy from IPv4 internal addresses to IPv6 servers. Adding and configuring a proxy server adds configuration, hardware, and maintenance costs to the network; usually much more than simply enabling IPv6.

NAT causes it's own problems too. The Router has to be capable of coordinating every connection running through it, keeping track of endpoints, ports, timeouts, and more. All that traffic is being funneled through that single point usually. Though it's possible to build redundant NAT routers, the technology is massively complex and generally expensive. Redundant simple routers are easy and cheap (comparatively). Also, to re-establish some of the routability, forwarding and translating rules have to be established on the NAT system. This still breaks protocols which embed IP addresses, such as SIP. UPNP, STUN, and other protocols were invented to help with this problem too - more complexity, more maintenance, more that could go wrong.
